#talk 
Talk by Dan Foreman Mackay, for ML4P course.

# Interpretability @ Anthropic
Consider the 2-Layer MLP in the attention head, 
$$
\begin{align}
\text{Attention}(x) = \text{MLP} \circ ...  \circ x
\end{align}
$$
the MLP uses an activation function which induces sparsity in the intermediate layer (e.g. ReLU, which is used in the original Attention is All You Need paper). It is believed that (1) the sparse intermediate layer contains a lot of information of how the transformer thinks (2) sparsity is important to the transformer working well... So the goal is to develop a theory for this layer after the network is trained.

An experiment that you can run
**Setup:** Get a bunch of sequences of inputs. Feed them all through the model. Sort the inputs by how highly activated a chosen neuron (in the MLP) is. 
**Result:** You find that at earlier layers (closer to input), some neurons activate to particular words (e.g. dog, cat). However this doesn't work well at later layers, so this seems to suggest that later layers are polysemantic (or activate on concepts; the level of the concept is to be well-defined).
**Discussion:** Say the LLM only has 10,000 dimensional hidden layer in the MLP. We'd expect it to only reason about 10,000 things. However we don't observe this, so something more interesting must be going on...! 

So a way to interpret this later layers is to use Sparse Linear Probes. 

So the idea is just use a VAE on the latent representation in the MLP. The VAE is a sparse linear probe, that is the intermediate layer is higher dimensions than the input and you add a sparsity regularization.
____
**Remark** Paul said that using LLMs purely for code is quite bad after a few iterations. However DFM said that the Claude codebase has been designed in such a way that makes it easy for Claude to operate on! I kinda suspected this from how I write LaTeX derivations, but to hear this is the same for code is interesting.




